## Link To The Problem 
https://leetcode.com/problems/happy-number/

## Problem Description

Write an algorithm to determine if a number is "happy".

A happy number is a number defined by the following process: Starting with any positive integer, replace the number by the sum of the squares of its digits, and repeat the process until the number equals 1 (where it will stay), or it loops endlessly in a cycle which does not include 1. Those numbers for which this process ends in 1 are happy numbers.

Example: 
```
Input: 19
Output: true
Explanation: 
12 + 92 = 82
82 + 22 = 68
62 + 82 = 100
12 + 02 + 02 = 1
```

## Ideas

Use a dictionary to keep track of the number (detect cycle).

## Algorithm Analysis
Part 1 can be done by using the division and modulus operators to repeatedly take digits off the number until none remain, and then squaring each removed digit and adding them together. Have a careful look at the code for this, "picking digits off one-by-one" is a useful technique you'll use for solving a lot of different problems.

Part 2 can be done using a HashSet. Each time we generate the next number in the chain, we check if it's already in our HashSet.

If it is not in the HashSet, we should add it.
If it is in the HashSet, that means we're in a cycle and so should return false.
The reason we use a HashSet and not a Vector, List, or Array is because we're repeatedly checking whether or not numbers are in it. Checking if a number is in a HashSet takes O(1)O(1) time, whereas for the other data structures it takes O(n)O(n) time. Choosing the correct data structures is an essential part of solving these problems.


## Code

```py
class Solution(object):
    def isHappy(self, n):
        """
        :type n: int
        :rtype: bool
        """
        set_dict = {}
        while set_dict.get(n, 0) == 0: # not found
            set_dict[n] = 1
            n = self.convert(n)
            if (n == 1):
                return True
        return False
    def convert(self, n):
        number = 0
        while n != 0:
            digit = n % 10 
            n /= 10
            number += (digit * digit)
        return number
```

## Complexity Analysis
```
Time complexity: O(log n)

Space complexity: O(n)
```
## Related Topics
```math``` ```easy```




