## Link To The Problem 
https://leetcode.com/problems/sum-of-two-integers/

## Problem Description

Calculate the sum of two integers a and b, but you are not allowed to use the operator + and -.

Example 1:
```
Input: a = 1, b = 2
Output: 3
```
Example 2:
```
Input: a = -2, b = 3
Output: 1
```
## Ideas

Use bit manipulation.

XOR gate can be used for sum.

AND gate can be used for carryin.

## Algorithm Analysis
Eg: Let's try this with our hand 3 + 2 = 5 , the carry will be with in the brackets i.e "()"
```
3 => 011 
2=>  010
     ____
     1(1)01
```
Here we will forward the carry at the second bit to get the result.
So which bitwise operator can do this ? A simple observation says that XOR can do that,but it just falls short in dealing with the carry properly, but correctly adds when there is no need to deal with carry.
For Example:

```
1   =>  001 
2   =>  010 
1^2 =>  011 (2+1 = 3) 
```
So now when we have carry, to deal with, we can see the result as :
```
3  => 011 
2  => 010 
3^2=> 001  
```
Here we can see XOR just fell short with the carry generated at the second bit.
So how can we find the carry ? The carry is generated when both the bits are set, i.e (1,1) will generate carry but (0,1 or 1,0 or 0,0) won't generate a carry, so which bitwise operator can do that ? AND gate ofcourse.

To find the carry we can do
```
3    =>  011 
2    =>  010 
3&2  =>  010
```
now we need to add it to the previous value we generated i.e ( 3 ^ 2), but the carry should be added to the left bit of the one which genereated it.
so we left shift it by one so that it gets added at the right spot.

Hence (3&2)<<1 => 100
so we can now do
```
3 ^2        =>  001 
(3&2)<<1    =>  100 
```
Now xor them, which will give 101(5) , we can continue this until the carry becomes zero.


## Code

```py
cclass Solution(object):
    def getSum(self, a, b):
        """
        :type a: int
        :type b: int
        :rtype: int
        """
        mask = 0xffffffff
        while b & mask:
            a, b = a ^ b, (a & b) << 1
        if b:
            return a & mask
        return a
```

## Complexity Analysis
```
Time complexity: O(log n)

Space complexity: O(1)
```
## Related Topics
```math``` ```easy```




